Analytics rules plugin docs for Cockpit and Device Management (#3543)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/application-enablement/ui-c8y-new-analytics-rules-plugin-in-public-review.md

---
date:

> title: New Analytics rules plugin is available as Public Preview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Analytics Rules plugin now available in Public Preview
```

Author: We are keeping 'rules' lowercase to maintain consistency throughout the application/docs and with smart rules.

product_area: Application enablement & solutions
change_type:
  - value: change-pXAlHAWka
    label: Preview
component:
  - value: component-YdSEScrEC
    label: Cockpit
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-pjJiURv9Y
    label: ui-c8y
version:
---

{{< c8y-admon-preview >}}
This feature is in Public Preview and may be subject to change in the future.
{{< /c8y-admon-preview >}}

> A new Analytics rules plugin extends the Analytics Builder capabilities within Streaming Analytics by enabling users to create and manage the Analytics Builder model instances directly from device and group contexts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Analytics Rules plugin is now available in Public Preview. It extends the capabilities of the Analytics Builder in Streaming Analytics, allowing users to define analytics rules and create and manage rule instances directly from asset, group, and device contexts within applications such as Cockpit and Device Management.
```

Reviewer: apart from a few minor changes to make it more valuable, I’ve also added points from the assets perspective (groups are a special asset model). Since we are moving toward asset-centric application building, including assets would strengthen the messaging—leaving them out might weaken the communication.

Author: done
